Developing impacting software is a professional and personal interest of mine. This started before I picked a major in college; I ventured into open source development and the world of Linux for years prior to deciding on college as my path to success. I have committed time to helping Linux communities, developing software for myself and contributing to open source projects in the means of documentation and programming. A few of the projects I have worked on include Gogs, Gitea, Zulip, Pass, and Lutris.

My interests span all over the world of computer technologies. I'm fundamentally inspired by movements in cloud engineering and containers. I have a history of system and database administration, working with hypervisors and physical servers, and more recently focusing on container orchestration with Docker Compose and cluster-based solutions such as Kubernetes and OpenShift. I love innovative ideas and approaches; Taking what we have learned from past solutions and creating a brand new foundation for elastic, efficient systems. I love finding hard problems and particularly enjoy incorporating new and innovative technologies to accomplish tasks.

My previous work experience spans from service-oriented architectures web applications, to ETL development for batch services, to monolithic Java web servers. I have always tackled new technologies wherever possible, utilizing new programming languages, databases, or paradigms. As a backend-oriented developer with familiarity across the full stack, I have implemented RESTful services, real-time communication using WebSockets, modern Angular web applications, and relational and object-oriented database systems.

I am familiar with several versions of source control management such as SVN and Git, many programming languages across the space of scripting (Bash, Python), systems engineering (Python, Go), mobile applications (Android), web applications (Python, Go, Java, PHP), and database interaction (SQL, Mongo). Whether I have worked with a technology in the past or have no experience at all, my aim is to solve problems and enhance lifestyles. I am currently a software engineer for Ally, a digital financial services company, and help deliver services that enable better experiences for the every day person.